---
layout: info
Title: SlugBot User Guide
type: 'guide'
---
# SlugBot User Guide
The following page will provide an easy-to-follow overview on how to install and run SlugBot in your Discord server or Twitch chat, and how to get the most out of it.


*****************************

# Discord setup

## Streamers and Stream Notifications
SlugBot intergrates with Twitch.tv allowing it to notify when your selected streamers go live. After specifying your `streams` channel using <span class="command-link" data-command="setchannel"/> and adding some streamers to look out for using <span class="command-link" data-command="streamer"/>, SlugBot will send a notification message to the `streams` channel when those streamers go live. SlugBot will also delete the notification when the stream goes offline.

### Set a Stream Channel for SlugBot to Use
First you'll want to set a channel in your server for SlugBot to send stream notifications in. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="setchannel"/> command with the `streams` argument __in the channel you want SlugBot to use__.
### Add Streamers to the Streamer List
This can be done in a couple ways, using the <span class="command-link" data-command="streamer"/> command or using a `streamer` role.
* Adding a streamer to the steamer list is as easy as using the command `!streamer add <twitch username>`. Streamers can be removed from the list with `!steamer remove <twitch username>`, and the full streamer list can be viewed using `!streamer list`.
	
* Using a `streamer` role requires a little more setup but streamlines the process for streamers that are also members of your server. Use the `!setrole streamer <streamer role name>` command to specify a role for SlugBot to use. Now any member given this role will be added to the streamer list __provided they have linked their discord account with their twitch account through SlugBot__. 

The linking process is done using the command `!twitch <your twitch name>`. This link need only be made once per discord account.

One benefit of using the streamer role method is that it works synergisticly with the <span class="command-link" data-command="giveme"/> command - allowing the streamer role to be self-assigned by members of your server. Make the `streamer` role self-assignable using the command `!giveme add <streamer role name>`. Members can then use the command `!giveme <streamer role>` to assign the role to themselves and have their streams appear in the streams channel.


## Setting Channels For SlugBot to Use
SlugBot needs to know what channels to use for _Welcome Messages_, _Member Events_, _Stream Notifications_, _Leaderboard_, and _Logging_. Use the !`setchannel` command to see what channels you need to set and what channels have been set already.

__Use `!setchannel default` in the channel you want SlugBot to use__ to set that channel as the default channel (`#general` is a good choice).

Do the same for `!setchannel leaderboard`, `!setchannel streams`, `!setchannel memberevents`, and `!setchannel log`. Make sure the channel permissions are as you want them; The logging channel should be private and only visible to moderators, for example.

A set channel can be unset using `!setchannel <channel> reset`.

​
## Setting Roles For SlugBot to Use
Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="setrole"/> command to see what roles can be set for SlugBot's use. You will want to create the roles you plan for SlugBot to use first, then set them using `!setrole <role to set> <role name>`. For example, create a role in Server Settings called 'Newcomer' and assign it as the global role with `!setrole global newcomer`.

* The set `global` role is given to every member when they join the server. This will be applied to members retroactively - any existing member without the role will be given it when they next send a message.
* `WeeklyTopRank` and `totalTopRank` are given to the highest weekly scorer and highest total scorer respectively.
* The `mute` role is given to members who have been muted by a moderator. If no mute role is set by an admin, a mute role is generated by slugbot with the correct permissions when the mute command is used for the first time. It is recommended to let SlugBot generate this role.
* `pc`, `ps4`, and `xbox` are used for self-settable platform roles. Setting the platform roles will create clones of the set roles that allow members to opt out of role pings. Member events will also use these roles to add information to the notifications.
* The `botAdmin` role can be set to allow members with this role access to SlugBot admin commands without needing to give them the server administrator permission.
* the `streamer` role works in conjunction with SlugBots twitch stream notifications. Any member with this role will have their streams linked in a set 


## Setting Roles to be Given when a Member Reaches a Certain Level
SlugBot can be used to give members roles to members who have been active in the server and reached a specific level. This can be done using the `!roleatlevel` command. To add a role to be given at level use the format `!roleatlevel add <role> <level> [sendNotification?]`. The optional argument `sendnotification` requires either true or false to state whether a notification should be sent telling the member they have gained the role upon reaching the required level.

Example: `!roleatlevel add Trusted 10 true`

To stop a role being given at a level, use the following format: `!roleatlevel remove <role name>`.
​
​
## Miscellaneous Settings
The welcome message sent by SlugBot when a new member joins can be customised using the `!setwelcomemessage <your welcome message>` command. Any instance of `${member}` in the welcome message will be replaced with the display name of the new member.

You may have role pings enabled but also want to give members the option to opt out of receiving said pings. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="optoutpings"/> command to toggle whether to allow members to opt out of role pings.

SlugBots command prefix can be set using <span class="command-link" data-command="setprefix"/>.

---

# Twitch Setup
To get SlugBot in your twitch chat, use the command `!twitch <your twitch name>` in any Discord server with SlugBot. SlugBot will DM you on twitch with confirmation so make sure you can receive DMs. SlugBot will then be lurking until activation - use the command `!activate slugbot` to get it listening to commands and enable all SlugBot functionality.

## Modules and Permissions
To enable/disable individual commands, use the `!permissions <command> <enable|disable>`. For example, to disable the `!uptime` command, use the following command `!permissions uptime disable`.

---

# Flag Replacers
Some SlugBot functions allow users to set strings to be used for responses such as custom welcome messages and command responses. These strings can be made more dynamic with the use of **flag replacers**.

### ${NAME}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with the name of the user who triggered the function.
### ${ID}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with the ID of the user who triggered the function.
### ${COUNT}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with the number of times the function has been triggered. If used for a welcome message, the flag will be replaced with the server's member count instead.
### ${0} ${1} ${2}
Capture Group flags, when used for regEx match responses, will be replaced by the corresponding capture group in the given regEx. ${0} will always be replaced by the full regEx match.
### ${ARG:0} ${ARG:1} ${ARG:2}
Index flags, when used for command responses, will be replaced by the corresponding argument that was supplied when the command was used.
### ${VALUE}
Any appearance of this flag in the string, when used for command responses, will be replaced with a stored value that can be set, incremented, and decremented by supplying a number argument, ++, or -- respectively when the command was used.
### ${RESTRICT: #\<channel id>} ${RESTRICT: @\<member id>}
This flag restricts the use of the function to either within specified channels, or by specified members. The flag is removed from the response.
### ${REACT: \<emoji>}
This flag will add the specified emoji as a reaction to the message that triggered the function. The flag is removed from the response.
### ${RAND: <option 1> | <option 2> | <option 3>}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with **one** of the listed options selected at random. The option selection can be weighted by prefixing the option with `{<weight>}` - for example `${RAND: {2} heads | {1} tails}`. This will make the option "heads" be twice as likely to be selected.
### ${TIMEOUT: \<duration>}
This flag will timeout the user who triggered the function for `<duration>` seconds if possible. This flag only applies for Twitch functions. SlugBot must be a moderator in the relevant Twitch chat. The flag is removed from the response.


---

# Slug Economy
Like some other bots, SlugBot has an Economy module, letting users earn and trade currency in the form of SlugCoin. However, SlugBot's economy allows users to 'hack' other members, steal from them or plant malware on their accounts. The aim of the game is to earn as much SlugCoin as you can while also protecting your account from other members.

## The Basics
Your account holds all of your Slug Economy data, including your bank balance, stats, info on your processes and marks, along with info on your detected security breaches. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="slugs"/> command to view your account menu. All accounts are protected by a **FIREWALL** that will prevent any tampering with your account. but that can be **BYPASS**ed given enough time.

Your bank holds SlugCoin in two ways; **Current** and **Vault**. **Current** has infinite capacity but is more vulnerable to malware and theft. your **Vault** is much more secure but has limited capacity determined by your **POWER Lvl**. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="vault"/> command to transfer SC from your current to your vault.

The easiest way to start earning is through Daily SlugCoin collection and passive SlugCoin earning. 
Once per day, you can use the <span class="command-link" data-command="daily"/> command to earn between 5000sc and 10,000sc.
You will also earn a small amount every few minutes while you are active in the server.

If you are feeling generous, you can give SC to others using the <span class="command-link" data-command="giveslugs"/> command.

## Processes and Malware
One of the best ways to make SC is to steal, either directly or through the effects of malware processes. First you'll want to **BYPASS** your target's **FIREWALL** using the <span class="command-link" data-command="bypass"/> command. This will begin the **BYPASS** process which will take a certain amount of time determined by your BYPASSER level and their FIREWALL level.
<div class="note">
Most processes take time - be that BYPASSing, SCANning for processes, or planting processes of your own on someones account. The time a process takes is usually determined by your offensive stat and your target's defensive stat. Use the `!plant` command with no arguments to view a list of possible processes you can plant and their corresponding offensive stat and defensive stat.
</div>
Once you've **BYPASS**ed a user's **FIREWALL** you'll have access to their account. Use `!slugs <target>` command to open their account menu and view their info. You won't be able to take anything from their bank balance just yet - Their SC reserves are still protected by their bank **ENCRYPTION** which will need to be **CRACK**ed - a time consuming process (`!crack <target>`), but access to their account now lets you plant various processes on them using the <span class="command-link" data-command="plant"/> command.

### SKIMMER
```!plant skimmer <target> <fraction to skim>```
This process, once planted on a user, will skim a fraction of all income the user receives and transfers the skimmed SC to the planter instead. As the process isn't directly taking SC from an account, but instead intercepting a transaction, **CRACK**ing their encryption is not needed.
* Offensive Stat: **INTERCEPTOR**
* Defensive Stat: **SCANNER**

### LEECH
```!plant leech <target> <amount/hour>```
This malware will siphon an amount of SC out of a users current account and transfer it to the planter every hour. Requires that the user's **ENCRYPTION** has been **CRACK**ed.
* Offensive Stat: **LEECH**
* Defensive Stat: **ENCRYPTION**

### BYPASS_VIRUS
```!plant bypass_virus <target>```
When a user with this process planted on them **BYPASS**es another, the planter of this process will also gain access to that account - essentially cloning their **BYPASS** process.
* Offensive Stat: **BYPASSER**
* Defensive Stat: **SCANNER**

### HIJACKER
```!plant hijacker <target user> <potency>```
A planted HIJACKER will attempt to hijack processes planted by the infected user. The potency of the HIJACKER process determines the success chance of the hijack attempts as well as the likelihood of its detection by a scan.
* Offensive Stat: **INJECTOR**
* Defensive Stat: **SCANNER**

### HONEYPOT
A honeypot, when planted on a user, bypass attackers attempting to bypass the user, or crack attackers attempting to crack the user. It's best to plant these on high value targets so you can gain access to the attacker's accounts.
* Offensive Stat: **INJECTOR**
* Defensive Stat: **SCANNER**

### REDIRECT
```!plant redirect <target user> to <redirect target user>```
A redirect process will redirect a planted process on a user to the redirect target user before deleting itself. The redirected process will have its target user spoofed so its owner will assume the process has not been redirected.
* Offensive Stat: **INJECTOR**
* Defensive Stat: **SCANNER**

### TRACKER
```!plant tracker <target user>```
A tracker process allows the owner to view the account activity logs of the target user as well as having a chance to automatically scan the target user's processes as they plant them. The more trackers you plant on a user, the better they will function.

*More coming soon...*

## Scanning
You are going to want to make sure your account is malware free - but malware processes aren't always easy to detect. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="scan"/> command to start a **SCAN** process. Scanning allows you to identify ANY process that exists - not just ones planted on you - so you'll want to specify a target to scan. To scan yourself state your username after the command. You can also state specific process types and/or attackers; As you can only scan at most a number of processes equal to your SCANNER lvl, narrowing your search will increase the chance of scanning the process you want.

Once you've **SCAN**ned, any detected processes will be displayed in your IDENTIFIED PROCESSES menu tab. You may see that some details of the process are still unidentified. Most processes require a few **SCAN**s to fully identify.

You can also identify malware by accessing the attacker's account and viewing their OUTBOUND PROCESSES. You can only uncover the owner of the process, but its a good way of finding that a process exists.

You are not limited to only scanning processes planted on yourself; You can also scan for processes planted on other people. This can be useful for finding good marks, defending other members, removing defenses or hijacking profitable processes.

## Cleaning and Hijacking
Once you've identified a process, you may want to remove it or hijack it. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="clean"/> or <span class="command-link" data-command="hijack"/> commands respectively to begin process. The more properties of the process you've identified, the more likely it will be successfully removed. **A bypass on the process' owner is required to hijack a process.**

## Investing
Another method of making SC is to invest in text channels in discord servers. Channel investments let you invest SC in a channel to get return payments for messages sent in that channel for 7 days. The return rates are calculated from the last 7 days activity - meaning that if a channel is more active in the following 7 days, you will see bigger returns. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="invest"/> command to see the expected return rate on the channel and how much you're expected to make by the end of the investment period. You can confirm or cancel the investment before SC is taken so feel free to use the command to view various channel's return rates.

To terminate an investment early, use the command `!invest terminate <channel>`. You will NOT be reimbursed any SC.

## Stats
Stats determine how long it takes for processes to complete, how effective processes are, or how secure your account is. For example, a higher **FIREWALL** stat will mean it will take longer for others to **BYPASS** it and access your account. You can level up using the command <span class="command-link" data-command="levelup"/> but it will cost SC. Every stat leveled increases your POWER Lvl. Every fifth POWER Lvl increases your vault capacity. every tenth POWER Lvl increases the number of investments you can make.

---



