---
layout: info
Title: SlugBot User Guide
type: 'setup_guide'
---

# Discord setup
The following page will provide an easy-to-follow overview on how to install and run SlugBot in your Discord server or Twitch chat, and how to get the most out of it. Any underlined command can be clicked to view extra information on it. e.g. <span class="command-link" data-command="help"/>

*****************************

## Streamers and Stream Notifications
SlugBot intergrates with Twitch.tv allowing it to notify when your selected streamers go live. After specifying your `streams` channel using <span class="command-link" data-command="setchannel"/> and adding some streamers to look out for using <span class="command-link" data-command="streamer"/>, SlugBot will send a notification message to the `streams` channel when those streamers go live. SlugBot will also delete the notification when the stream goes offline.

### Set a Stream Channel for SlugBot to Use
First you'll want to set a channel in your server for SlugBot to send stream notifications in. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="setchannel"/> command with the `streams` argument __in the channel you want SlugBot to use__.
### Add Streamers to the Streamer List
This can be done in a couple ways, using the <span class="command-link" data-command="streamer"/> command or using a `streamer` role.
* Adding a streamer to the steamer list is as easy as using the command `!streamer add <twitch username>`. Streamers can be removed from the list with `!steamer remove <twitch username>`, and the full streamer list can be viewed using `!streamer list`.
	
* Using a `streamer` role requires a little more setup but streamlines the process for streamers that are also members of your server. Use the `!setrole streamer <streamer role name>` command to specify a role for SlugBot to use. Now any member given this role will be added to the streamer list __provided they have linked their discord account with their twitch account through SlugBot__. 

The linking process is done using the command `!twitch <your twitch name>`. This link need only be made once per discord account.

One benefit of using the streamer role method is that it works synergisticly with the <span class="command-link" data-command="giveme"/> command - allowing the streamer role to be self-assigned by members of your server. Make the `streamer` role self-assignable using the command `!giveme add <streamer role name>`. Members can then use the command `!giveme <streamer role>` to assign the role to themselves and have their streams appear in the streams channel.


## Setting Channels For SlugBot to Use
SlugBot needs to know what channels to use for _Welcome Messages_, _Member Events_, _Stream Notifications_, _Leaderboard_, and _Logging_. Use the !`setchannel` command to see what channels you need to set and what channels have been set already.

__Use `!setchannel default` in the channel you want SlugBot to use__ to set that channel as the default channel (`#general` is a good choice).

Do the same for `!setchannel leaderboard`, `!setchannel streams`, `!setchannel memberevents`, and `!setchannel log`. Make sure the channel permissions are as you want them; The logging channel should be private and only visible to moderators, for example.

A set channel can be unset using `!setchannel <channel> reset`.

​
## Setting Roles For SlugBot to Use
Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="setrole"/> command to see what roles can be set for SlugBot's use. You will want to create the roles you plan for SlugBot to use first, then set them using `!setrole <role to set> <role name>`. For example, create a role in Server Settings called 'Newcomer' and assign it as the global role with `!setrole global newcomer`.

* The set `global` role is given to every member when they join the server. This will be applied to members retroactively - any existing member without the role will be given it when they next send a message.
* `WeeklyTopRank` and `totalTopRank` are given to the highest weekly scorer and highest total scorer respectively.
* The `mute` role is given to members who have been muted by a moderator. If no mute role is set by an admin, a mute role is generated by slugbot with the correct permissions when the mute command is used for the first time. It is recommended to let SlugBot generate this role.
* `pc`, `ps4`, and `xbox` are used for self-settable platform roles. Setting the platform roles will create clones of the set roles that allow members to opt out of role pings. Member events will also use these roles to add information to the notifications.
* The `botAdmin` role can be set to allow members with this role access to SlugBot admin commands without needing to give them the server administrator permission.
* the `streamer` role works in conjunction with SlugBots twitch stream notifications. Any member with this role will have their streams linked in a set 


## Setting Roles to be Given when a Member Reaches a Certain Level
SlugBot can be used to give members roles to members who have been active in the server and reached a specific level. This can be done using the `!roleatlevel` command. To add a role to be given at level use the format `!roleatlevel add <role> <level> [sendNotification?]`. The optional argument `sendnotification` requires either true or false to state whether a notification should be sent telling the member they have gained the role upon reaching the required level.

Example: `!roleatlevel add Trusted 10 true`

To stop a role being given at a level, use the following format: `!roleatlevel remove <role name>`.
​
​
## Miscellaneous Settings
The welcome message sent by SlugBot when a new member joins can be customised using the `!setwelcomemessage <your welcome message>` command. Any instance of `${member}` in the welcome message will be replaced with the display name of the new member.

You may have role pings enabled but also want to give members the option to opt out of receiving said pings. Use the <span class="command-link" data-command="optoutpings"/> command to toggle whether to allow members to opt out of role pings.

SlugBots command prefix can be set using <span class="command-link" data-command="setprefix"/>.

---

# Twitch Setup
To get SlugBot in your twitch chat, use the command `!twitch <your twitch name>` in any Discord server with SlugBot. SlugBot will DM you on twitch with confirmation so make sure you can receive DMs. SlugBot will then be lurking until activation - use the command `!activate slugbot` to get it listening to commands and enable all SlugBot functionality.

Alternatively you can whisper smugSlugBot with the work `join` to bring SlugBot into your twitch chat without needing to use discord.

## Modules and Permissions
To enable/disable individual commands, use the `!permissions <command> <enable|disable>`. For example, to disable the `!uptime` command, use the following command `!permissions uptime disable`.

---

# Flag Replacers
Some SlugBot functions allow users to set strings to be used for responses such as custom welcome messages and command responses. These strings can be made more dynamic with the use of **flag replacers**.

### ${NAME}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with the name of the user who triggered the function.
### ${ID}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with the ID of the user who triggered the function.
### ${COUNT}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with the number of times the function has been triggered. If used for a welcome message, the flag will be replaced with the server's member count instead.
### ${0} ${1} ${2}
Capture Group flags, when used for regEx match responses, will be replaced by the corresponding capture group in the given regEx. ${0} will always be replaced by the full regEx match.
### ${ARG:0} ${ARG:1} ${ARG:2}
Index flags, when used for command responses, will be replaced by the corresponding argument that was supplied when the command was used.
### ${VALUE}
Any appearance of this flag in the string, when used for command responses, will be replaced with a stored value that can be set, incremented, and decremented by supplying a number argument, ++, or -- respectively when the command was used.
### ${RESTRICT: #\<channel id>} ${RESTRICT: @\<member id>}
This flag restricts the use of the function to either within specified channels, or by specified members. The flag is removed from the response.
### ${REACT: \<emoji>}
This flag will add the specified emoji as a reaction to the message that triggered the function. The flag is removed from the response.
### ${RAND: \<option 1> | \<option 2> | \<option 3>}
Any appearance of this flag in the string will be replaced with **one** of the listed options selected at random. The option selection can be weighted by prefixing the option with `{<weight>}` - for example `${RAND: {2} heads | {1} tails}`. This will make the option "heads" be twice as likely to be selected.
### ${MATH: \<expression>}
This flag will be replaced by the result of evaluating the expression given. Other replacer flags can be nested within this flag and factored into the expression - for example `${MATH: ${COUNT} + 10}`.
### ${TIMEOUT: \<duration>}
This flag will timeout the user who triggered the function for `<duration>` seconds if possible. This flag only applies for Twitch functions. SlugBot must be a moderator in the relevant Twitch chat. The flag is removed from the response.


---



